---
layout: default
title: Welcome to CSE103, Fall 2015
---

Our first class will take place on Thursday, September 24, at 8am. 
In this introductory class we will talk about the importance of
statistical inference, the role of interchangeability and some of
the uses of statistics in computer systems.

I will also outline the policies and the resources for this
course. Outside of this web site, there are three major resources for
this course. All registered students for the class, as well as those
on the waiting list, should have an account on each of these sites. I
recommend that you check that you have a login and, in some cases,
get aquainted with it.

Your ID for each of these services is your ucsd email ID, i.e. mine is
yfreund because my UCSD email is yfreund@ucsd.edu

1. [webwork](http://webwork.cse.ucsd.edu/webwork2/CSE103_Fall14/)
Online homework. Your initial password here is your student PID.
You can start going through the orientation questions in Week 1
(problem 1-15) 
even before the first class. I recommend you do that! If you are on
the waiting list, you should follow along and do the assignments until
you get into the class. You will not be able to do those later.
1. [Piazza](https://piazza.com/class/hzpd9rblz9f3go) This is a site in
which you can ask questions about the course material and the homework
and get answers from the instructor, the TAs or your peers.
1. [Nota-Benne](http://nb.mit.edu/)  This is an experimental site in
which you can ask questions about reading material used in the
class. It lets you link your question to a particular location in the
PDF file and get notification when people responded to your
question. You can add yourself to the class page by clicking on
the
[Subscribe Link](http://nb.mit.edu/subscribe?key=mawTltZBYakuzf9FxRTUt5swUX0k5CswY7G0tTKNeP794i3H4F)



