---
layout: default
title: Welcome to CSE103, Fall 2016
---

In this class you will learn the foundation of probability and statistics.
CSE Majors are required to take one class in Probability and Statistics which can be either this class, or Math 183.

The main difference between this class and Math183 is its emphasis on applications of probability and statistics, and the use of jupyter notebooks for programming assignments. 

### Setting Expectations
While this class is more oriented to computer science than Math183, **it is a class in Mathematics**. This means that the class emphasis is on mathematical concepts and notation and 
on how to apply these concepts to practical problems. The class is **not** about memorizing a set of equations and rules for how to apply them.

The first 2-3 weeks are a review of material taught in CSE21. 
CSE21 is not a prerequisite, but if you take CSE21 first the class would be much easier for you.

### Flipped Class
This is a **Flipped** class. Students are required to watch videos and do HW assignments between classes. Class time will be devoted to Q&A and discussion.

In other words, you do not need to attend class, class will be driven by students questions.

### What you need to do now

1. open-edX require registration. All registered students for the class, **as well as those on the waiting list**, should have received an invitation to join the edX course site. If you are registered for the course or on the waiting list and have not received an invitation, send an email to Rushil Nagda at: runagda@eng.ucsd.edu

2. In this course we will make heavy use of [jupyter notebooks](http://jupyter.org/). For direction on how to install jupyter notebooks on different operating systems follow the link "Software Installation" on the EdX course page.

