---
layout: default
title: Curriculum
---

## CSE 103. A Practical Introduction to Probability and Statistics ##

Combinatorics. Distributions over discrete and continuous
domains. Conditional probability and Independence. Bayesian
inference. Random variables, expectation, mean, variance and
covariance. Binomial and Poisson distributions. Markov and Chebyshev's
inequalities. Central limit theorem. Hypothesis testing. Learning
classifiers.

CSE 103 is not duplicate credit for ECE 109, Econ 120A, or Math 183.

**Prerequisites:** Math 20A and Math 20B.

## Plan of classes ##

* **Week1:** Introduction and motivation. Sets. (Chapters 1,2)
* **Week2:** Finite uniform probability spaces, basic combinatorics. (Chapters 3,4)
* **Week3:** Poker problems, general probability spaces, Converging/diverging series, CDFs   (chapters 4.5, 5)
* **Week4:** Conditional probabilities, Bayes, Monti Hall, Game
    theory, Conditional Poker, (chapter 6)
* **Week5:** Random variablesExpectation and variance, expectations that are infinite or undefined. (Chapter 7)
* **Week6:**  Covariance, correlation coefficient and
    independence. Exponential and poisson distributions (Chapter 8)
* **Week7:** Samping, central limit theorem, hypothesis testing
    (Chapter 9)
* **Week8:** Randomized Algorithms 1 (Chapter 10.1 - 10.4)
* **Week9:** Randomized Algorithm 2 (10.5 - 10.7)
* **Week10:**  Review.

## Grading ##

The final number grade will be an average:

* 50% Grades on EdX homework. The lowest 2 grades will be dropped.
* 40% Final Exam
* 20% Class Participation

* There will be no Midterms.

Students that are on the waiting list are expected to do the
assignments for the class until the time that they know they will not
be able to join the class. It will not be possible for such students
to do the assignments later.

## Class Participation ##

Class participation is graded as follows:

* Each student is expected to ask 2-4 good questions during the
  quarter. Each good question is worth 5 points.
* Questions can be asked during class, during sections, in private
  conversations with instructor or TAs, or on Piazza.
* The Instructor/TA that was asked the question decides whether this
  was a good question. Good questions aim to improve understanding,
  not just to find the correct answer to a problem. A good question is
  designated "POP"
* The student that asked a POP question publishes it, *together with
  the answer*, on Piazza. In the body of the question write "POP
  question made to XXX"
* The instructor/TA marks the question as "good question" and gives
  the students 5 point of class participation.
* Any question or answer on piazza can be marked as "good question" /
  "good answer" and earn 5 points for the students who wrote
  them. However, these questions/answered should not be marked as
  "POP".
* When posting a question on Piazza, check first whether a similar
  question has been answered before.
