---
layout: default
title: TextBooks
permalink: /TextBooks/
---
## Textbooks ##

The main written resource for this class is
**lecture notes** by Sanjoy Dasgupta and Yoav Freund. That are
avaiable from the class open-edx web site
[here](http://edx.cse.ucsd.edu:18010/textbooks/course-v1:UCSD+CSE103+2016_Fall)

Other useful books are

1. [OpenIntro Statistics](https://www.openintro.org/stat/index.php) is
an excellent book about statistics and statistical inference.

1.  [Introduction to probability](/Resources/GrinsteadSnell.pdf) by Grinsted and Snell.
  This book is a thorough introduction to probability. It covers much
  more than we cover in CSE103. Go to this book when you feel that the
  class notes are not sufficient.
  
1.  [Think Stats: Probability and Statistics for Programmers](http://nb.mit.edu/f/16682)
  by Allen Downey. This book makes extensive use of code example in
  python to explain statistical concepts in a way that makes sense to programmers.

## Cheat Sheets ##
The main concepts and formulas used in the
course can be found [here](/Resources/CheatSheet.pdf). You can use
these cheat sheets in seveal ways:

1. As an aid when doing homework.
2. As a way to review material you learned to see that you understand
the formulas and know how to use them.
3.  While you will not be allowed to bring this sheet with you to the
exam. I recommend that you use it to create your own cheat sheet. This
cheat sheet can be created by hand and can fill both sides of a single
letter sized sheet of paper.

## Practice Final ##
The practice final in a PDF format can be downloaded from [here](/Resources/Fall2015_CombinedPracticeFinal.pdf)



