---
layout: default
title: How this class is run
permalink: /ClassRun/
---

## How this course is run
This course is a flipped class. All of the class material is available
online through edX. Lecture time will be devoted to reviewing the
material and answering questions. You are expected to watch the videos
and attempt the problem sets and the programming assignments before
lecture time.

The course operates on a weekly basis, On thusrday at 6pm the material
for the following week will be released. Quizes, problem sets and
programming assignments will be due by 6pm on the following thursday.
To get the most out of lecture time review the material before class on
the following tuesday. 

Programming assignments are written in Python and use Jupyter
notebooks. The submissions for programming assignment are made in the
form of answers to edX questions regarding the results from running
the notebook. It is possible, but not recommended, to complete the PA
and answer the questions using a different language or platform.

### Some tips on how to succeed in this course
* Find other students and form a study group.  Asking questions and
  explaining answers is one of the best ways to make sure you
  understand. If you feel lost or clueless, it is likely that others
  feel the same, discussing helps. In many cases, you can get each
  other unstuck. Even when you cannot get unstuck there is a
  significant benefit to discussing because after discussion you can
  ask a specific question.
* Attend class, discussions and office hours. While attendance is not
  required, it is helpful to take part in questions and answers and
  discussions. It deepens your understanding of the material and
  improves your confidence.
* Ask questions. Good questions are at least as important as good
 answers.  A good question illuminates a gap. Filling this gap is very
 satisfying both to the person providing the answer as to the person
 receiving it.  Make your questions specific. Questions of the type "I
 am confused about this subject" or "How do you solve question A3?"
 does not identify a gap in understanding. Instead, it suggests to the
 other person that they should repeat an explanation or give an
 answer, both of which are unlikely to improve your understanding of
 the material.
* Participate in the discussion forum. We will use
  [Piazza](http:piazza.com/ucsd/fall2018/cse103/home) for both
  administrative and educational matters. You can sign up to to this
  piazza site through
  [this link](http:piazza.com/ucsd/fall2018/cse103).
* Install the coding platform early.  Learners often stumble at the
  first point in the course when coding is required.  So by the end of
  this week, be sure to follow our instructions on setting up Jupyter
  to run on your machine.
* Play with the code.  Throughout the course, we'll be walking through
  notebooks we've provided you.  Please work along with us and feel
  free to make changes, try out new ideas, and just generally play
  around with the code.

## Online materials
Videos, Quizes, Problem sets and Programming assignments will be provided on a weekly basis through the [Class edX.edge](https://edge.edx.org/courses/course-v1:UCSD+CSE103_2018+2018_fall/course/) website. Each student should receive an email with a link to their account. If you did not receive such an email please contact the teaching staff through Piazza.

### Installing Jupyter Notebooks
Directions for installing Jupyter notebooks on different platforms are available from DSE200 here: https://mas-dse.github.io/startup/

## Grading ##
The final number grade will be on the scale of 0-100. 
* 20 points for the average of 9 quizes. Lowest grade quiz will be dropped from the average.
* 30 points for the average of 8 problem sets. Lowest grade problem set will
  be dropped from the average.
* 20 points for the average 0f 10 Programming Assignements. Lowest
  grade PA will be dropped from the average.
* 30 points Final Exam

* There will be no Midterms.
